.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright 2018,2020 Thomas E. Dickey                                     *
.\" Copyright 1998-2016,2017 Free Software Foundation, Inc.                  *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a  *
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the            *
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including      *
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute with modifications, sublicense, and/or sell       *
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is    *
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included  *
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above copyright   *
.\" holders shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written       *
.\" authorization.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: curs_outopts.3x,v 1.33 2020/10/03 22:04:09 tom Exp $
.TH curs_outopts 3X ""
.na
.hy 0
.de bP
.ie n  .IP \(bu 4
.el    .IP \(bu 2
..
.SH NAME
\fBclearok\fR,
\fBidlok\fR,
\fBidcok\fR,
\fBimmedok\fR,
\fBleaveok\fR,
\fBsetscrreg\fR,
\fBwsetscrreg\fR,
\fBscrollok\fR \- \fBcurses\fR output options
.ad
.hy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint clearok(WINDOW *\fP\fIwin\fP\fB, bool \fP\fIbf\fP\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint idlok(WINDOW *\fP\fIwin\fP\fB, bool \fP\fIbf\fP\fB);\fR
.br
\fBvoid idcok(WINDOW *\fP\fIwin\fP\fB, bool \fP\fIbf\fP\fB);\fR
.br
\fBvoid immedok(WINDOW *\fP\fIwin\fP\fB, bool \fP\fIbf\fP\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint leaveok(WINDOW *\fP\fIwin\fP\fB, bool \fP\fIbf\fP\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint scrollok(WINDOW *\fP\fIwin\fP\fB, bool \fP\fIbf\fP\fB);\fR
.sp
\fBint setscrreg(int \fP\fItop\fP\fB, int \fP\fIbot\fP\fB);\fR
.br
\fBint wsetscrreg(WINDOW *\fP\fIwin\fP\fB, int \fP\fItop\fP\fB, int \fP\fIbot\fP\fB);\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These routines set options that change the style of output within
\fBcurses\fR.
All options are initially \fBFALSE\fR, unless otherwise stated.
It is not necessary to turn these options off before calling \fBendwin\fR(3X).
.SS clearok
.PP
If \fBclearok\fR is called with \fBTRUE\fR as argument, the next
call to \fBwrefresh\fR with this window will clear the screen completely and
redraw the entire screen from scratch.
This is useful when the contents of the
screen are uncertain, or in some cases for a more pleasing visual effect.
If
the \fIwin\fR argument to \fBclearok\fR is the global variable \fBcurscr\fR,
the next call to \fBwrefresh\fR with any window causes the screen to be cleared
and repainted from scratch.
.SS idlok
.PP
If \fBidlok\fR is called with \fBTRUE\fR as second argument, \fBcurses\fR
considers using the hardware insert/delete line feature of terminals so
equipped.
Calling \fBidlok\fR with \fBFALSE\fR as second argument disables use
of line insertion and deletion.
This option should be enabled only if the
application needs insert/delete line, for example, for a screen editor.
It is
disabled by default because insert/delete line tends to be visually annoying
when used in applications where it is not really needed.
If insert/delete line
cannot be used, \fBcurses\fR redraws the changed portions of all lines.
.SS idcok
.PP
If \fBidcok\fR is called with \fBFALSE\fR as second argument, \fBcurses\fR
no longer considers using the hardware insert/delete character feature of
terminals so equipped.
Use of character insert/delete is enabled by default.
Calling \fBidcok\fR with \fBTRUE\fR as second argument re-enables use
of character insertion and deletion.
.SS immedok
.PP
If \fBimmedok\fR is called with \fBTRUE as argument\fR, any change
in the window image, such as the ones caused by \fBwaddch, wclrtobot, wscrl\fR,
etc., automatically cause a call to \fBwrefresh\fR.
However, it may
degrade performance considerably, due to repeated calls to \fBwrefresh\fR.
It is disabled by default.
.SS leaveok
.PP
Normally, the hardware cursor is left at the location of the window cursor
being refreshed.
The \fBleaveok\fR option allows the cursor to be left
wherever the update happens to leave it.
It is useful for applications where
the cursor is not used, since it reduces the need for cursor motions.
.SS scrollok
.PP
The \fBscrollok\fR option controls what happens when the cursor of a window is
moved off the edge of the window or scrolling region, either as a result of a
newline action on the bottom line, or typing the last character of the last
line.
If disabled, (\fIbf\fR is \fBFALSE\fR), the cursor is left on the bottom
line.
If enabled, (\fIbf\fR is \fBTRUE\fR), the window is scrolled up one line
(Note that to get the physical scrolling effect on the terminal, it is
also necessary to call \fBidlok\fR).
.SS  setscrreg/wsetscrreg
.PP
The \fBsetscrreg\fR and \fBwsetscrreg\fR routines allow the application
programmer to set a software scrolling region in a window.
The \fItop\fR and
\fIbot\fR parameters
are the line numbers of the top and bottom margin of the scrolling
region.
(Line 0 is the top line of the window.)  If this option and
\fBscrollok\fR are enabled, an attempt to move off the bottom margin line
causes all lines in the scrolling region to scroll one line in the direction
of the first line.
Only the text of the window is scrolled.
(Note that this
has nothing to do with the use of a physical scrolling region capability in the
terminal, like that in the VT100.
If \fBidlok\fR is enabled and the terminal
has either a scrolling region or insert/delete line capability, they will
probably be used by the output routines.)
.SH RETURN VALUE
The functions \fBsetscrreg\fR and \fBwsetscrreg\fR return \fBOK\fR upon success
and \fBERR\fR upon failure.
All other routines that return an integer always
return \fBOK\fR.
.PP
X/Open Curses does not define any error conditions.
.PP
In this implementation,
.bP
those functions that have a window pointer
will return an error if the window pointer is null
.bP
\fBwsetscrreg\fP
returns an error if the scrolling region limits extend outside the window.
.RE
.PP
X/Open does not define any error conditions.
This implementation returns an error
if the window pointer is null.
.SH PORTABILITY
These functions are described in the XSI Curses standard, Issue 4.
.PP
From the outset, ncurses used \fBnl\fP/\fBnonl\fP to control the conversion
of newlines to carriage return/line-feed on output as well as input.
XSI Curses documents only the use of these functions for input.
This difference arose from converting the \fIpcurses\fP source
(which used \fBioctl\fP calls with the \fBsgttyb\fP structure)
to termios (i.e., the POSIX terminal interface).
In the former, both input and output were controlled via a single
option \fBCRMOD\fP,
while the latter separates these features.
Because that conversion interferes with output optimization,
\fBnl\fP/\fBnonl\fP were amended after ncurses 6.2
to eliminate their effect on output.
.PP
Some historic curses implementations had, as an undocumented feature, the
ability to do the equivalent of \fBclearok(..., 1)\fR by saying
\fBtouchwin(stdscr)\fR or \fBclear(stdscr)\fR.
This will not work under ncurses.
.PP
Earlier System V curses implementations specified that with \fBscrollok\fR
enabled, any window modification triggering a scroll also forced a physical
refresh.
XSI Curses does not require this, and \fBncurses\fR avoids doing
it to perform better vertical-motion optimization at \fBwrefresh\fR
time.
.PP
The XSI Curses standard does not mention that the cursor should be
made invisible as a side-effect of \fBleaveok\fR.
SVr4 curses documentation does this, but the code does not.
Use \fBcurs_set\fR to make the cursor invisible.
.SH NOTES
Note that
\fBclearok\fR,
\fBleaveok\fR,
\fBscrollok\fR,
\fBidcok\fR, and
\fBsetscrreg\fR may be macros.
.PP
The \fBimmedok\fR routine is useful for windows that are used as terminal
emulators.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\fBcurses\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_addch\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_clear\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_initscr\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_scroll\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_refresh\fR(3X),
\fBcurs_variables\fR(3X).
