'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright 2018-2019,2020 Thomas E. Dickey                                *
.\" Copyright 1998-2010,2012 Free Software Foundation, Inc.                  *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a  *
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the            *
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including      *
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute with modifications, sublicense, and/or sell       *
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is    *
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included  *
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above copyright   *
.\" holders shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written       *
.\" authorization.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: form_field.3x,v 1.17 2020/10/24 09:10:45 tom Exp $
.TH form_field 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBform_field\fR \- make and break connections between fields and forms
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <form.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint set_form_fields(FORM *\fP\fIform\fP\fB, FIELD **\fP\fIfields\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBFIELD **form_fields(const FORM *\fP\fIform\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBint field_count(const FORM *\fP\fIform\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBint move_field(FIELD *\fP\fIfield\fP\fB, int \fP\fIfrow\fP\fB, int \fP\fIfcol\fP\fB);\fP
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function \fBset_form_fields\fR changes the field pointer array of
the given \fIform\fR.  The array must be terminated by a \fBNULL\fR.
.PP
The function \fBform_fields\fR returns the field array of the given form.
.PP
The function \fBfield_count\fR returns the count of fields in \fIform\fR.
.PP
The function \fBmove_field\fR moves the given field (which must be disconnected)
to a specified location on the screen.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The function \fBform_fields\fR returns a pointer (which may be \fBNULL\fR).
It does not set \fBerrno\fP.
.PP
The function \fBfield_count\fR returns \fBERR\fR if the \fIform\fP parameter
is \fBNULL\fP.
.PP
The functions \fBset_form_fields\fR and \fBmove_field\fR return one of
the following codes on error:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
The routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_ARGUMENT
Routine detected an incorrect or out-of-range argument.
.TP 5
.B E_CONNECTED
The field is already connected to a form.
.TP 5
.B E_POSTED
The form is already posted.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred (see \fBerrno\fR(3)).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBform\fR(3X).
.SH NOTES
The header file \fB<form.h>\fR automatically includes the header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate the System V forms library.
They were not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.PP
The SVr4 forms library documentation specifies the \fBfield_count\fR error value
as \-1 (which is the value of \fBERR\fR).
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer.
Manual pages and adaptation for new curses by Eric S. Raymond.
