'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright 2018,2020 Thomas E. Dickey                                     *
.\" Copyright 1998-2010,2015 Free Software Foundation, Inc.                  *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a  *
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the            *
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including      *
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute with modifications, sublicense, and/or sell       *
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is    *
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included  *
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above copyright   *
.\" holders shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written       *
.\" authorization.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: form_userptr.3x,v 1.19 2020/10/24 09:00:52 tom Exp $
.TH form_userptr 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBset_form_userptr\fP,
\fBform_userptr\fR \- associate application data with a form item
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <form.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint set_form_userptr(FORM *\fP\fIform\fP\fB, void *\fP\fIuserptr\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBvoid* form_userptr(const FORM *\fP\fIform\fP\fB);\fP
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Every form and every form item has a field that can be used to hold
application-specific data (that is, the form-driver code leaves it alone).
These functions get and set the form user pointer field.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The function \fBform_userptr\fR returns a pointer (which may be \fBNULL\fR).
It does not set \fBerrno\fP.
.PP
The function \fBset_form_userptr\fR returns \fBE_OK\fP (success).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBform\fR(3X).
.SH NOTES
The header file \fB<form.h>\fR automatically includes the header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate the System V forms library.
They were not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.PP
The user pointer is a void pointer.
We chose not to leave it as a char pointer for SVr4 compatibility.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer.
Manual pages and adaptation for new curses by Eric S. Raymond.
