'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright 2018-2019,2020 Thomas E. Dickey                                *
.\" Copyright 1998-2010,2015 Free Software Foundation, Inc.                  *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a  *
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the            *
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including      *
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute with modifications, sublicense, and/or sell       *
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is    *
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included  *
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above copyright   *
.\" holders shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written       *
.\" authorization.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: form_new_page.3x,v 1.17 2020/10/18 00:04:36 tom Exp $
.TH form_new_page 3X ""
.ie \n(.g .ds `` \(lq
.el       .ds `` ``
.ie \n(.g .ds '' \(rq
.el       .ds '' ''
.SH NAME
\fBset_new_page\fR,
\fBnew_page\fR \- form pagination functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <form.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint set_new_page(FIELD *\fP\fIfield\fP\fB, bool \fP\fInew_page_flag\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBbool new_page(const FIELD *\fP\fIfield\fP\fB);\fP
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function \fBset_new_page\fR sets or resets a flag marking the given field
as the beginning of a new page on its form.
.PP
The function \fBnew_page\fR is a predicate which tests if a given field marks
a page beginning on its form.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The function \fBnew_page\fR returns \fBTRUE\fR or \fBFALSE\fR.
.PP
The function \fBset_new_page\fR returns one of the following:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
The routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_CONNECTED
The given field is already connected to a form.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X) and related pages whose names begin \*(``form_\*('' for detailed
descriptions of the entry points.
.SH NOTES
The header file \fB<form.h>\fR automatically includes the header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate the System V forms library.
They were not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer.
Manual pages and adaptation for new curses by Eric S. Raymond.
