.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright 2018,2020 Thomas E. Dickey                                     *
.\" Copyright 1998-2010,2017 Free Software Foundation, Inc.                  *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a  *
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the            *
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including      *
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute with modifications, sublicense, and/or sell       *
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is    *
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included  *
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above copyright   *
.\" holders shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written       *
.\" authorization.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" Author: Thomas E. Dickey 1997
.\"
.\" $Id: keyok.3x,v 1.15 2020/10/17 23:39:59 tom Exp $
.TH keyok 3X ""
.SH NAME
\fBkeyok\fP \- enable or disable a keycode
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fP
.sp
\fBint keyok(int \fP\fIkeycode\fP\fB, bool \fP\fIenable\fP\fB);\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is an extension to the curses library.
It permits an application to disable specific keycodes, rather than
use the \fIkeypad\fP function to disable all keycodes.
Keys that have been disabled can be re-enabled.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The keycode must be greater than zero, else \fBERR\fP is returned.
If it does not correspond to a defined key, then \fBERR\fP is returned.
If the \fIenable\fP parameter is true, then the key must have been disabled,
and vice versa.
Otherwise, the function returns \fBOK\fP.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines are specific to ncurses.
They were not supported on
Version 7, BSD or System V implementations.
It is recommended that
any code depending on them be conditioned using NCURSES_VERSION.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBdefine_key\fR(3X).
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Dickey.
