'\" t
.\"***************************************************************************
.\" Copyright 2018-2019,2020 Thomas E. Dickey                                *
.\" Copyright 1998-2010,2015 Free Software Foundation, Inc.                  *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a  *
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the            *
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including      *
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,      *
.\" distribute, distribute with modifications, sublicense, and/or sell       *
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is    *
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                 *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included  *
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                   *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS  *
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF               *
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.   *
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,   *
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR    *
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR    *
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.                               *
.\"                                                                          *
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above copyright   *
.\" holders shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the     *
.\" sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written       *
.\" authorization.                                                           *
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\" $Id: menu_attributes.3x,v 1.19 2020/10/17 23:58:58 tom Exp $
.TH menu_attributes 3X ""
.ie \n(.g .ds `` \(lq
.el       .ds `` ``
.ie \n(.g .ds '' \(rq
.el       .ds '' ''
.SH NAME
\fBmenu_back\fR,
\fBmenu_fore\fR,
\fBmenu_grey\fR,
\fBmenu_pad\fR,
\fBset_menu_back\fR,
\fBset_menu_fore\fR,
\fBset_menu_grey\fR,
\fBset_menu_pad\fR \- color and attribute control for menus
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <menu.h>\fR
.sp
\fBint set_menu_fore(MENU *\fP\fImenu\fP\fB, chtype \fP\fIattr\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBchtype menu_fore(const MENU *\fP\fImenu\fP\fB);\fP
.sp
\fBint set_menu_back(MENU *\fP\fImenu\fP\fB, chtype \fP\fIattr\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBchtype menu_back(const MENU *\fP\fImenu\fP\fB);\fP
.sp
\fBint set_menu_grey(MENU *\fP\fImenu\fP\fB, chtype \fP\fIattr\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBchtype menu_grey(const MENU *\fP\fImenu\fP\fB);\fP
.sp
\fBint set_menu_pad(MENU *\fP\fImenu\fP\fB, int \fP\fIpad\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBint menu_pad(const MENU *\fP\fImenu\fP\fB);\fP
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function \fBset_menu_fore\fR sets the foreground attribute of
\fImenu\fR. This is the highlight used for selected menu items.
\fBmenu_fore\fR returns the foreground attribute.
The default
is \fBA_REVERSE\fR.
.PP
The function \fBset_menu_back\fR sets the background attribute of
\fImenu\fR. This is the highlight used for selectable (but not currently
selected) menu items.
The function \fBmenu_back\fR returns the background
attribute.
The default is \fBA_NORMAL\fR.
.PP
The function \fBset_menu_grey\fR sets the grey attribute of \fImenu\fR. This is
the highlight used for un-selectable menu items in menus that permit more than
one selection.
The function \fBmenu_grey\fR returns the grey attribute.
The default is \fBA_UNDERLINE\fR.
.PP
The function \fBset_menu_pad\fR sets the character used to fill the space
between the name and description parts of a menu item.
\fBmenu_pad\fR returns
the given menu's pad character.
The default is a blank.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These routines return one of the following:
.TP 5
.B E_OK
The routine succeeded.
.TP 5
.B E_SYSTEM_ERROR
System error occurred (see \fBerrno\fR(3)).
.TP 5
.B E_BAD_ARGUMENT
Routine detected an incorrect or out-of-range argument.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X) and related pages whose names begin \*(``menu_\*('' for detailed
descriptions of the entry points.
.SH NOTES
The header file \fB<menu.h>\fR automatically includes the header file
\fB<curses.h>\fR.
.SH PORTABILITY
These routines emulate the System V menu library.
They were not supported on
Version 7 or BSD versions.
.SH AUTHORS
Juergen Pfeifer.
Manual pages and adaptation for new curses by Eric S. Raymond.
